Features of python:
-------------------
✓ Easy to Use
o It is a programmer friendly; it contains syntaxes just like English commands.
o Uses an elegant syntax, making the programs you write easier to read.
✓ High Level Language
o Python is a clear and powerful object-oriented programming language, comparable 
to Perl, Ruby, Scheme, or Java.
✓ Expressive Language
o The code is easily understandable.
✓ Interpreted
o The execution done in line by line format.
✓ Platform Independent
o We can run this python code in all operating systems.
✓ Open Source
o Python is free of cost, source code also available.
✓ Object-Oriented language
o Python supports object-oriented programming with classes and multiple inheritance
✓ Huge Standard Library
o Code can be grouped into modules and packages.
✓ GUI Programming
o Graphical user interfaces can be developed using Python.
✓ Integrated
o It can be easily integrated with languages like C, C++, JAVA etc.
✓ Extensible 
o Is easily extended by adding new modules implemented in a compiled language such 
as C or C++

Python has significant advantages in terms of:

✓ Pyramid, Flask, Bottle and Django are among the well-known frameworks of Python.
✓ Pyramid is a small framework which makes real-world Web applications productive.
✓ Django is more mature and is one among the largest Web-based frameworks for Python
But Django is very hard to customise and troubleshoot, in some situations, due to its allencompassing nature. This is one of its drawbacks.
✓ Tornado is lighter in weight and has a few more features than Django. As I said earlier, 
Tornado is known for its high performance
✓ Building API services for Mobile ( Flask )
✓ Doing Scientific computations ( Numpy, Scipy )
✓ PlotLib would enable you to create data visualizations.
✓ Dealing with Data ( Pandas ) 
✓ Numerous other things like scripting/ text processing/ machine learning/Natural 
Language Processing/ Text mining/ Web mining/ OpinionMining/ Sentiment analysis/ 
Big data system


1. other languages more about the coding less about analysis (when compare to python).
python less about coding more about the analysis.

Note: python is simple but need analysis.
To check the popularity of python programming language use below command.
http://pypl.github.io/PYPL.html

2. python performance good because python is less coding.

3. To run the code in online use python online coompilers 
https://repl.it/languages/python3
https://glot.io/

4. The top websites written using python 
In google search just type : top website written in python 
https://www.quickstart.com/blog/10-famous-websites-built-with-python/
Google, YouTube, Quora,Dropbox.Yahoo!,Reddit,Instagram,Spotify , NSA ,DRDO...etc 

5. Technologies are using python 
AI , ML , DS , Image process , Deep learning....etc 
IOT , chip level designing 
selenium, Hadoop......etc 

6. Developer practices: we can do the practical’s in different ways. 

Terminals Approach 
command prompts
Editors 
Edit plus 
notepad++ 
subline text 
vs editor 
IDE : Integrated development environment.
spyder
pycharam
Note books 
Jupyter 
Tools 
Anaconda

7. Python is an interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language.
C, CPP : performance is very good 
not for internet application 
platform dependent languages
 
C : procedure based : deals with functions
java : object oriented : deals with classes & object 
Python : Both procedure & object : deals with functions & classes.


python: 
-------
we can develop internet application(client-server)
platform independent language
python : function based : we can declare the functions we can write the code 

Object based : deals with classes & objects 

script based : directly write code 

1. directly write the code 
num1 = 10
num2 = 20
result = num1 + num2 
print(result)

2. write the code with funtions 
def wish():
 print("Good Morning")
wish()

3. oops : deals with classes & objects 
class MyClass:
 def wish(self):
print("Good Morning ratan")
c = MyClass()
c.wish() 

8. The programming languages are two types 

1. Low level languages : These are closer to machine 
ex: assembly 
2. high level languages : These are closer to human 
ex: java, python,js
Note: Programming languages give instruction to computers then computer will do some action. 
without programming languages computer unable to do any task.


